README.md, before:

# Swift for WebAssembly Example Packages

A collection of example projects using Swift's support for [WebAssembly](https://webassembly.org). To learn more, see:

- [Getting Started with Swift SDKs for WebAssembly](https://www.swift.org/documentation/articles/wasm-getting-started.html)
- [WebAssembly Support in Swift Vision Document](https://github.com/swiftlang/swift-evolution/blob/main/visions/webassembly.md)

The repository is split into multiple subdirectories:

- The [`AudioWorkstation`](./AudioWorkstation) package demonstrates use of
  WebAssembly for application plugins;
- The [`WebGPUDemo`](./WebGPUDemo) package demonstrates use of WebAssembly
  in the browser, with Swift bindings to the [WebGPU](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2025/236) API.

## Contributing to this repository

Contributions to Swift are welcomed and encouraged! Please see the
[Contributing to Swift guide](https://swift.org/contributing/).

To be a truly great community, [Swift.org](https://swift.org/) needs to welcome
developers from all walks of life, with different backgrounds, and with a wide
range of experience. A diverse and friendly community will have more great
ideas, more unique perspectives, and produce more great code. We will work
diligently to make the Swift community welcoming to everyone.

To give clarity of what is expected of our members, Swift has adopted the
code of conduct defined by the Contributor Covenant. This document is used
across many open source communities, and we think it articulates our values
well. For more, see the [Code of Conduct](https://swift.org/code-of-conduct/).


## Code of Conduct

Like all Swift.org projects, we would like these example projects to foster a diverse and friendly
community. We expect contributors to adhere to the [Swift.org Code of
Conduct](https://swift.org/code-of-conduct/).

Commit message:

Add `DOMRefTypes` example (#41)
This provides an example of DOM manipulation using reference types. With all optimizations enabled, final `.build/release/RefsTest.wasm` binary built using Embedded Swift SDK is only 1.2 kB.

README.md, after:

# Swift for WebAssembly Example Packages

A collection of example projects using Swift's support for [WebAssembly](https://webassembly.org). To learn more, see:

- [Getting Started with Swift SDKs for WebAssembly](https://www.swift.org/documentation/articles/wasm-getting-started.html)
- [WebAssembly Support in Swift Vision Document](https://github.com/swiftlang/swift-evolution/blob/main/visions/webassembly.md)

The repository is split into multiple subdirectories:

- The [`AudioWorkstation`](./AudioWorkstation) package demonstrates use of
  WebAssembly for application plugins;
- The [`WebGPUDemo`](./WebGPUDemo) package demonstrates use of WebAssembly
  in the browser, with Swift bindings to the [WebGPU](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2025/236) API.
- The [`DOMRefTypes`](./DOMRefTypes) package demonstrates use of WebAssembly
  reference types for high performance bridging to DOM Web APIs. This specific
  package is currently provided for advanced use cases only.

## Contributing to this repository

Contributions to Swift are welcomed and encouraged! Please see the
[Contributing to Swift guide](https://swift.org/contributing/).

To be a truly great community, [Swift.org](https://swift.org/) needs to welcome
developers from all walks of life, with different backgrounds, and with a wide
range of experience. A diverse and friendly community will have more great
ideas, more unique perspectives, and produce more great code. We will work
diligently to make the Swift community welcoming to everyone.

To give clarity of what is expected of our members, Swift has adopted the
code of conduct defined by the Contributor Covenant. This document is used
across many open source communities, and we think it articulates our values
well. For more, see the [Code of Conduct](https://swift.org/code-of-conduct/).


## Code of Conduct

Like all Swift.org projects, we would like these example projects to foster a diverse and friendly
community. We expect contributors to adhere to the [Swift.org Code of
Conduct](https://swift.org/code-of-conduct/).
